In this lecture we will learn about pseudo classes based on an element type the pseudo classes we will
look at are first of type last of type and so tight and the last of type and only of type.
The first of type pseudo class will select the first element of a certain type.
For example let's add three paragraph elements to our Web page and add some example text to each of
them.
Then we will add an opening and closing style tag and use the first type pseudo class on the element
specifying that the first paragraph element should have the color of blue.
When we run the code we just wrote in the browser.
You will notice that the first paragraph element on our page example text 1 is displayed in blue.
This is because we used the first type pseudo class which found the first element on our Web page of
type paragraph and applied the specified style to it.
In this case changing its color to blue.
Let's jump back to the editor.
The last of type pseudo class selects the last element of the specified type to apply this style to
if we change our code to use the last of type pseudo class and run our code in the browser.
You will notice that the last paragraph element on our Web page example text 3 has the specified style
applied to it.
Then we will go back to the editor and look at another example
the nth of type pseudo class allows us to specify which child to apply a style to.
For example if we change our example code to use and of type and specify an end value of 2 then the
second paragraph element on our Web page will have the style applied to it.
Let's run our code in the web browser.
Now you will notice that the second paragraph element on our Web page is blue.
Let's jump back to the editor
the last of type pseudo class is very similar to the end of type pseudo class and that it selects the
element based on the number.
And we provide.
Except that it starts counting at the last element.
So if we were to specify the last of type 1 for example the third element would be selected since it
is the last paragraph element on our Web page when we run the code in the web browser.
You will notice that the third element example text 3 is displayed in blue.
Then we will go back to the editor
the only type pseudo class selects any elements of the provided type that are the only child elements
of that type within their parent.
If there are more than one of that type of child in the parent those elements will not be selected.
In our example if we change our code to use the only type pseudo class and run our code in the browser
we will notice that none of the paragraph elements have the blue color applied to them.
This is because they are all children of the same element.
So none of them is the only child and the paragraph type in the next lecture we will learn about the
pseudo classes CSSA gives us that apply to an element based on what child it is and its parent.